Blog : Evolution of Technology: Impact on Job Roles and Companies (#2359)
FlowFuse/website: src/blog/2024/07/evolution-of-technology-impact-on-job-roles-and-companies.md

---
title: "Evolution of Technology: Impact on Job Roles and Companies"
subtitle: The Role of FlowFuse in the Modern Technological Landscape
description: Discover how technology evolution, from historical disruptions to AI and low-code tools like Node-RED, reshapes job roles and enhances business operations
date: 2024-07-22
authors: ["sumit-shinde"]

> image: 

Reviewer: Need image too.

tags:
 - node-red
 - post
 - flowfuse
 - ai
 - low-code
 - no-code
 - jobs
---

> Throughout history, technology has continuously transformed industries, job roles, and entire companies. While these changes often evoke fear and resistance, they also create new jobs, opportunities for innovation and growth. This post will explore how historical technological advancements have reshaped both individual job roles and entire companies, examine current trends like AI and low-code tools, and discuss the critical importance of adaptability for both individuals and businesses in navigating technological disruption, Importantly, we will address the pressing questions of our time: 'How might AI complement and challenge human capabilities?' and 'While low-code tools offer efficiency, how do they impact creativity and job markets?’

Reviewer: I would like to see the bold statement at the beginning—an attention-grabbing statement.  I combined the questions and came up with something like this:

"How can AI and low-code tools both enhance and challenge human capabilities, creativity, and the job market, and is this the next frontier in manufacturing or just hype?"

> Throughout history, technology has continuously transformed industries, job roles, and entire companies. While these changes often evoke fear and resistance, they also create new jobs, opportunities for innovation and growth. This post will explore how historical technological advancements have reshaped both individual job roles and entire companies, examine current trends like AI and low-code tools, and discuss the critical importance of adaptability for both individuals and businesses in navigating technological disruption, Importantly, we will address the pressing questions of our time: 'How might AI complement and challenge human capabilities?' and 'While low-code tools offer efficiency, how do they impact creativity and job markets?’

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughout history, technology has continuously transformed industries, job roles, and entire companies. While these changes often evoke fear and resistance, they also create new jobs and opportunities for innovation and growth. This post will explore how historical technological advancements have reshaped both individual job roles and entire companies, examine current trends like AI and low-code tools, and discuss the critical importance of adaptability for both individuals and businesses in navigating technological disruption, Importantly, we will address the pressing questions of our time: 'How might AI complement and challenge human capabilities?' and 'While low-code tools offer efficiency, how do they impact creativity and job markets?’
```

Low-code and no-code development platforms represent another transformative trend reshaping how companies approach software development and innovation. These platforms empower business users and citizen developers to create applications and automate workflows with minimal coding knowledge. By democratizing software development, low-code tools enable faster application deployment, greater agility in responding to market demands, and enhanced collaboration between IT and business teams. Companies that embrace low-code platforms like Node-RED can accelerate digital transformation initiatives, streamline business processes, and drive innovation across the organization.

> Furthermore, AI and low-code tools are not only disrupting traditional job roles but also creating new opportunities across various fields. Roles such as AI Integration Specialists, Data Scientists, and Machine Learning Engineers, prompt engineers are increasingly in demand as companies seek to enhance efficiency and productivity. Similarly, the adoption of low-code tools like Node-RED is leading to the creation of positions such as Automation Engineers, and IoT Developers, Integration Specialist and Node-RED is becoming a standard requirement in jobs across manufacturing and IoT industries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, AI and low-code tools disrupt traditional job roles and create new opportunities across various fields. Roles such as AI Integration Specialists, Data Scientists, and Machine Learning Engineers, prompt engineers are increasingly in demand as companies seek to enhance efficiency and productivity. Similarly, the adoption of low-code tools like Node-RED is leading to the creation of positions such as Automation Engineers, IoT Developers, and Integration specialists, and Node-RED is becoming a standard requirement in jobs across manufacturing and IoT industries.
```
